Web api (#222)
OCR-D/spec: web_api.md

## Usage

When a system implemented this Web API, it can be used as following:

1. User gets information about the system via endpoints in the `Discovery` section.
2. User creates a workspace via the `POST /workspace` endpoint and gets back a workspace ID.
3. User creates a workflow by uploading a Nextflow script to the system via the `POST /workflow` endpoint and get back a
   workflow ID.
4. User can either:
    * Trigger a single processor on a workspace by calling the `POST /processor/{executable}` endpoint with the chosen
      processor name and workspace ID, or
    * Start a workflow on a workspace by calling the `POST /workflow/{workflow-id}` endpoint with the chosen workflow ID
      and workspace ID.
    * In both case, a job ID is returned to the user.
5. With the given job ID, user can check the job status by calling:
    * `GET /processor/{executable}/{job-id}` for a single processor, or
    * `GET /workflow/{workflow-id}/{job-id}` for the workflow.
6. The result can be downloaded by calling the `GET /workspace/{workspace-id}` endpoint with the
   header `Accept: application/vnd.ocrd+zip`. Without that header, only the metadata of the specified workspace is

>    returned.

Reviewer: Agreed.

processor (e.g. which IP address, which port).

Since processors are now running independently, there is no need to have the `Workflow` and `Processing` section in the
Web API implemented on the same machine anymore. Instead, we can have a Workflow Server separated from the Processing
Server, and Nextflow is installed on this server. This Workflow Server does not require access to file system, but
instead the access to processors and the database.

## REST API for Processors

In the [Distributed System Architecture](#distributed-system-architecture), we describe a case, where a processor runs
as a server instead of its usual one-shot mode. This section describe the REST API of processor in detail, which we call
it _Processor API_.

### Why do we need this?

As described in the [OCR-D syntax](https://ocr-d.de/en/user_guide#ocr-d-syntax), one can call a single processor by
using the command

```shell
ocrd-[processor needed] -I [Input-Group] -O [Output-Group] -P [parameter]
# alternatively using Docker
docker run --rm -u $(id -u) -v $PWD:/data -w /data -- ocrd/all:maximum ocrd-[processor needed] -I [Input-Group] -O [Output-Group] -P [parameter]
```

> Although this approach works perfectly fine, it poses a drawback: the processor cannot be called remotely. One always
> needs to connect to the machine where the processor is installed and execute the command on the CLI. If the data is
> small, this might not be a problem. However, in the era of big data, where one has to constantly deal with a huge amount
> of input, resource utilization has become vital and a distributed system is the way to go. To achieve a distributed
> OCR-D system, the mentioned drawback must be overcome. Therefore, we provide a wrapper for processors to enable their
> communication over network ability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Obviously, command-line interfaces do not suit all use-cases well: Calling processors remotely would require 
connecting to the machine via some login and data transfer mechanism, and then executing the CLI locally. Also,
the initialization cannot be easily shared between runs, and that overhead might be very large for GPU processing.
Moreover, scaling up can be difficult: A machine may only support a certain number of concurrent computations,
so it is usually necessary to control the maximum number of parallel sessions.

With a server interface, all these shortcomings can be overcome: Remote access, preloading, queueing etc. become possible.
Also, in virtualized execution environments, containers can only call each other as network services. 
So deploying single-processor containers as network services allows building larger systems.
```

### Usage

Since the Processor API uses [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) to store data, we must have an instance of MongoDB
running before starting a Processor API. There are 2 ways to start it:

```shell
# 1. Via processor CLI
ocrd-[processor needed] --server=<ip>:<port>:<mongo-url>

# 2. Via ocrd CLI
ocrd server --server=<ip>:<port>:<mongo-url> <processor-name>
```

The parameters are:

1. `processor-name`: name of the processor, e.g. `ocrd-dummy`
2. `ip`: the IP address to which the server should bind, e.g. `0.0.0.0`
3. `port`: the port number on which the server should listen, e.g. `80`
4. `mongo-url`: the URL to the Mongo database, e.g. `mongodb://localhost:27017`

For example, to have an `ocrd-dummy` processor running at port `80` of all IPv4 addresses on the local machine and
connecting to a MongoDB instance at `localhost:27017`, we run one of the two commands:

```shell
# 1. Via processor CLI
ocrd-dummy --server=0.0.0.0:80:mongodb://localhost:27017

# 2. Via ocrd CLI
ocrd server --server=0.0.0.0:80:mongodb://localhost:27017 ocrd-dummy
```

> **Note**: this feature is currently under code review. Once it is finished and release, this page will be updated with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: this feature is currently under code review. Once it is finished and released, this page will be updated with
```

I am confused: Where do you actually describe the REST interface? Shouldn't we see the description of `GET /` and `POST /` and `GET /{jobid}` here?

# Web API

## Why do we need a Web API?

After having processors running locally via the [CLI](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/cli), communication over network is the
natural extension. This feature will improve the flexibility, scalability and reliability of the system. This
specification presents ideas behind the endpoints, how to use them, and technical details happening in the background.

## The Specification

The Web API specification can be found [here](openapi.yml). It follows
the [OpenAPI specification](https://swagger.io/specification/). There are 4 parts to be implemented: discovery,
processing, workflow, and workspace.

**Discovery**: The service endpoints in this section provide information about the server. They include, but are not
limited to, hardware configuration, installed processors, and information about each processor.

**Processing**: Via the service endpoints in this section, one can get information about a
specific [processor](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/glossary#ocr-d-processor), trigger a processor run, and check a status of

> a running processor. By exposing these endpoints, the server can encapsulate the detailed setup of the system and offer

Reviewer: OK, so you mean the processing broker can provide access to multiple processors? Can we formulate in such a way to make that clearer?

refers to existing workspaces.

## Usage

When a system implements the Web API completely, it can be used as follows:

1. Retrieve information about the system via endpoints in the `Discovery` section.
2. Create a workspace via the `POST /workspace` endpoint and gets back a workspace ID.
3. Create a workflow by uploading a Nextflow script to the system via the `POST /workflow` endpoint and get back a
   workflow ID.
4. One can either:
    * Trigger a single processor on a workspace by calling the `POST /processor/{executable}` endpoint with the chosen
      processor name and workspace ID, or
    * Start a workflow on a workspace by calling the `POST /workflow/{workflow-id}` endpoint with the chosen workflow ID
      and workspace ID.
    * In both case, a job ID is returned.
5. With the given job ID, it is possible to check the job status by calling:
    * `GET /processor/{executable}/{job-id}` for a single processor, or
    * `GET /workflow/{workflow-id}/{job-id}` for the workflow.
6. The result can be downloaded by calling the `GET /workspace/{workspace-id}` endpoint with the

>    header `Accept: application/vnd.ocrd+zip`. Without that header, only the metadata of the specified workspace is

Author: OK, I agree.

   returned.

## Suggested OCR-D System Architecture

There are various ways to build a system which implements this Web API. In this section, we describe a distributed

> architecture, which greatly improves the scalability, flexibility, and reliability of the system compared to

Reviewer: Still open, right?

> architecture, which greatly improves the scalability, flexibility, and reliability of the system compared to

Author: I gave some technologies used in this example in the paragraph direct under the figure.

> architecture, which greatly improves the scalability, flexibility, and reliability of the system compared to

Author: > But it says `compared to CLI` here. Shouldn't that rather be what benefits this particular architecture offers over a simple non-distributed Processing Server implementation (e.g. direct Processor REST calls)?

Agree. It's just the old text. I'll update it accordingly.

the [CLI](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/cli) approach.

<figure>
  <img src="images/web-api-distributed-queue.jpg" alt="Distributed architecture with the Web API"/>
  <figcaption align="center">
    <b>Fig. 1:</b> OCR-D System Architecture
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Description

As shown in Fig. 1, each section in the [Web API specification](#the-specification) is implemented by different servers,
which are Discovery Server, Processing Broker, Workflow Server, and Workspace Server respectively. Although each server
in the figure is deployed on its own machine, it is completely up to the implementors to decide which machines run which
servers. However, having each processor run on its own machine reduces the risk of version and resource conflicts.
Furthermore, the machine can be customized to best fit the processor's hardware requirements and throughput demand. For
example, some processors need GPU computation, while others do not, or some need more CPU capacity while others need

> more memory. It is also easier to scale up the processors, or even apply Function-as-a-Service on some of them, which

Author: I remove it then.

are not constantly used, to save resources.

**Processing**: since the `Processing` section is provided by [OCR-D Core](https://github.com/OCR-D/core), implementors
do not need to implement Processing Broker, Message Queue, and Processing Server. Once a request comes, the broker

> pre-processes it if necessary, and push it to an appropriate queue. A processing queue always has the same name as its

Author: As explained later, it just converts the request body into a message and push it to the queue.

> pre-processes it if necessary, and push it to an appropriate queue. A processing queue always has the same name as its

Reviewer: OK, I would omit that.

```diff
-pre-processes it if necessary, and push it to an appropriate queue. A processing queue always has the same name as its
+pushes it to an appropriate queue. A processing queue always has the same name as 
```

respective processors. For example, `ocrd-olena-binarize` processors listen only to the queue
named `ocrd-olena-binarize`. A Processing Server, which is
an [OCR-D Processor](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/glossary#ocr-d-processor) running as a worker, listens to the queue, pulls

> new jobs when available, processes them, and returns results. One do not call a Processing Server directly, but via a

Author: It pushes the status of the job back to the queue. I will re-phrase it to make it clearer.

> new jobs when available, processes them, and returns results. One do not call a Processing Server directly, but via a

Reviewer: all good now, I would leave out the redundant "if necessary" at the end.

Processing Broker. Job statuses can be pushed back to the queue, depending on the [job configuration](#message-queue),
so that other services get updates and act accordingly.

**Database**: in this architecture, a database is required to store necessary information such as users requests, jobs
statuses, workspaces, etc. We recommend to use [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) since it is used by Processing

> Servers, but other kinds of storage may work as well.

Author: Yes, you're right.

**Network File System**: in order to avoid file transfer between different machines, it is highly recommended to have
a [Network File System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_File_System) set up. With NFS, all Processing Servers
(specifically processors) can work in a shared storage environment and access files as if they are local files. To get
data into the NFS, one could use the `POST /workspace` endpoint to upload [OCRD-ZIP](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/ocrd_zip)
files. However, this approach is only appropriate for small data size. Usually, Workspace Server should be able to pull

> data from other storages.

Author: The detail implementation is up to the IP. In my mind, the endpoint accepts a URL (and credentials if necessary), then just download the zip file and extract it to create a workspace.

IPs can also implement that endpoint in a way that it accepts a URL to a METS file, download it, then download all files in METS to create a workspace.

I don't include this endpoint in the `openapi.yml` file, since I don't think it should be compulsory. IPs can decide if they want to implement it or not.

> data from other storages.

Reviewer: But we do include the `/workspace` endpoint in the web api spec, don't we?

I think it would be beneficial for the IP reading this if you could add the information from [your comment](https://github.com/OCR-D/spec/pull/222#discussion_r1064891353) to the text here, so they get an idea of what is meant with "other storages" (better; "other storage solutions").

### Processing Broker

A Processing Broker is a server which exposes REST endpoints in the `Processing` section of
the [Web API specification](openapi.yml). There are two types of task performed by a broker: deployment management and

> message producer. For the former, a broker can deploy, re-use, and shutdown Processing Servers, Message Queue, and

Author: Because they're all components in the architecture. I didn't think much about it, actually.

> message producer. For the former, a broker can deploy, re-use, and shutdown Processing Servers, Message Queue, and

Reviewer: I don't care much either way, it should just be consistent.

the file might look like.

```yaml
message_queue:
  address: localhost
  port: 5672
  credentials:
    username: admin
    password: admin
  ssh:
    username: cloud
    path_to_privkey: /path/to/file
mongo_db:
  address: localhost
  port: 27017
  credentials:
    username: admin
    password: admin
  ssh:
    username: cloud
    password: "1234"
hosts:
  - address: localhost
    username: cloud
    password: "1234"
    deploy_processors:
      - name: ocrd-cis-ocropy-binarize
        number_of_instance: 2
        deploy_type: native
      - name: ocrd-olena-binarize
        number_of_instance: 1
        deploy_type: docker

  - address: 134.76.1.1
    username: tdoan
    path_to_privkey: /path/to/file
    deploy_processors:
      - name: ocrd-eynollah-segment
        number_of_instance: 1
        deploy_type: native
```

There are three main sections in the configuration file.

1. `message_queue`: it contains the `address` and `port`, where the queue was deployed, or will be deployed with the
   specified `credentials`. If the `ssh` property is presented, the Processing Broker will try to connect to

>    the `address` via `ssh` with provided `username` and `password` and deploy [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) at

Author: There is no default here. Users need to provide `username` and either `path_to_privkey` or `password`.

   it.
2. `mongo_db`: this section also contains the `address` and `port`, where the [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) is
   running, or will run. If `credentials` is presented, it will be used when deploying and connecting to the database.
   The `ssh` section behaves exactly the same as described in the `message_queue` section above.
3. `hosts`: this section contains a list of hosts, usually virtual machines, where Processing Servers should be
   deployed. To be able to connect to a host, an `address` and `username` are required, then comes either `password`
   or `path_to_privkey` (path to a private key). All Processing Servers, which will be deployed, must be declared under
   the `deploy_processors` property. In case `type` is `docker`, make sure that [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) is
   installed in the target machine and the provided `username` has enough rights to execute Docker commands.

Among three sections, only the `message_queue` is required. However, if `hosts` is presented, `mongo_db` must be there
as well. For more information, please check the [configuration file schema](web_api/config.schema.yml).

### Processing Server

> One do not need to start (or stop) a Processing Server manually, since it can be managed by a Processing Broker via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is normally no need to start (or stop) a Processing Server manually, since it can be managed by a Processing Broker via
```

a [configuration file](#processing-broker). However, if it is necessary to do so, there are two ways to start a
Processing Server:

```shell

> # 1. Use ocrd tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# 1. Use ocrd CLI bundled with OCR-D/core
```

$ ocrd processing-server <processor-name> --queue=<queue-address> --database=<database-address>

# 2. Use processor name
<processor-name> processing-server --queue=<queue-address> --database=<database-address>
```

* `--queue`: a [Rabbit MQ connection string](https://www.rabbitmq.com/uri-spec.html) to a running instance.
* `--database`: a [MongoDB connection string](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/connection-string/) to a
  running instance.

### Message Queue

By using a queuing system, specifically [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/), the reliability and flexibility of the
whole system are greatly improved. In our implementation, manual acknowledgement mode is used. This means, when a
Processing Server finishes successfully, it sends a positive ACK signal to RabbitMQ. In case of failure, it tries again
three times before sending a negative ACK signal. When a negative signal is received, RabbitMQ will re-queue the
message. If there is not any ACK signal sent for any reason (e.g. consumer crash, power outage, network problem, etc.),
RabbitMQ will automatically re-queue the message after timeout, which is 30

> minutes [by default](https://www.rabbitmq.com/consumers.html#acknowledgement-timeout). This value is, however, can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
minutes [by default](https://www.rabbitmq.com/consumers.html#acknowledgement-timeout). This behavior can be [overridden](link that describes how].
```

> configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To avoid processing the same input twice (in case of re-queuing), a Processing Server first checks
the [`redeliver`](https://www.rabbitmq.com/confirms.html#automatic-requeueing) property to see if this message was
re-queued. If yes, and the status of this process in the database is not `SUCCESS`, it will process the data described
in the message again.

> When a Processing Broker receives a request, it adds some more data to the content, then push it to an appropriate

Reviewer: >it adds some more data to the content

What is "some more data" here?

Reviewer: Or rather, as it is explained later, maybe remove this here to reduce confusion.

Author: I re-phrased it.

processors listen only to the queue named `ocrd-olena-binarize`. Below is an example of how a message looks like. For a
detailed schema, please check the [message schema](web_api/processing-message.schema.yml).

```yaml
job_id: uuid
processor_name: ocrd-cis-ocropy-binarize

path_to_mets: /path/to/mets.xml
input_file_grps:
  - OCR-D-DEFAULT
output_file_grps:
  - OCR-D-BIN
page_id: PHYS_001,PHYS_002
parameters:
  params_1: 1
  params_2: 2
result_queue_name: ocrd-cis-ocropy-binarize-result

created_time: 1668782988590
```

In the message content, except `job_id`, `processor_name`, and `created_time`, are added by the Processing Broker. The
rest comes from the body of the `POST /processor/{executable}` request.

Instead of `path_to_mets`, one can also use `workspace_id` to specify a workspace. An ID of a workspace can be obtained
from the Workspace Server. In case `result_queue_name` property is presented, the result of the processing will be
pushed to the queue with the provided name. If the queue does not exist yet, it will be created on the fly. This is
useful when there is another service waiting for the results of processing. That service can simply listen to that queue

> and will be immediately notified when the results are available. The message schema can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and will be immediately notified when the results are available. The message schema for results can be
```

found [here](web_api/result-message.schema.yml), while an example of a result message looks like this:

```yaml
job_id: uuid
status: SUCCESS
path_to_mets: /path/to/mets.xml
```

With the returned `job_id`, one can retrieve more information by sending a `GET` request to
the `/processor/{executable}/{job_id}` endpoint, or to `/processor/{executable}/{job_id}/log` to get all logs of that
job.

### Database

The database is required to store necessary information such as users requests, jobs statuses, workspaces, etc. We
recommend to use [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) since it is used by Processing Servers, but other kinds of storage
may work as well. However, there must be a MongoDB running in the system because all Processing Servers will read and

> write to it. To connect to MongoDB via a Graphical User

Reviewer: This seems contradictory. If MongoDB is required for the broker, why and how could you use "other kinds of storage"?

Author: I agree. The text was removed.

**Processing**: Via the service endpoints in this section, one can get information about a
specific [processor](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/glossary#ocr-d-processor), trigger a processor run, and check the status
of a running processor. By exposing these endpoints, the server can encapsulate the detailed setup of the system and
offer users a single entry to the processors. The implementation of this section is provided
by [OCR-D/core](https://github.com/OCR-D/core). Implementors do not need to implement it themselves, they can reuse
and/or extend the reference implementation from OCR-D/core.

**Workflow**: Beyond single processors, one can manage
entire [workflows](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/glossary#ocr-d-workflow), i.e. a series of connected processor
instances. In this spec, a workflow amounts to a [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) script. Some information
about Nextflow and how to use it in OCR-D is documented [in the Nextflow spec](nextflow).

**Workspace**: The service endpoints in this section concern data management, which in OCR-D is handled
via [workspaces](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/glossary#workspace). Processing (via single processors or workflows) always

> refers to existing workspaces, i.e. combinations of `mets.xml` and downloaded files from the `mets.xml`.

Author: I didn't add this case since I want to leave this endpoint optional. Some IPs may want to support METS URL, some don't. And it also depends on where the METS files are stored, some kind of credentials might be necessary. That's why I leave it to the IP to decide.

> refers to existing workspaces, i.e. combinations of `mets.xml` and downloaded files from the `mets.xml`.

Reviewer 2: > I didn't add this case since I want to leave this endpoint optional. Some IPs may want to support METS URL, some don't. 

How about an **optional** endpoint then? IMO this should not be left underspecified (because it helps understanding the whole thing and because a standard endpoint would be preferable).

> And it also depends on where the METS files are stored, some kind of credentials might be necessary.

What do you mean by that?

> refers to existing workspaces, i.e. combinations of `mets.xml` and downloaded files from the `mets.xml`.

Author: Since I thought that all endpoints defined in the spec are compulsory. But maybe I can add some text to note that this endpoint is optional.

METS files are not always publicly accessible, right? There might be cases where authentication is needed to download the files.

> refers to existing workspaces, i.e. combinations of `mets.xml` and downloaded files from the `mets.xml`.

Reviewer 2: > Since I thought that all endpoints defined in the spec are compulsory.

The CLI spec has optional features, too.

> METS files are not always publicly accessible, right? There might be cases where authentication is needed to download the files.

Ah, ok. But why should that hinder establishing the endpoint itself? Even if an implementation needs to add credentials, or the URLs are not valid to some outside network, the server can still build on the same implementation.

> refers to existing workspaces, i.e. combinations of `mets.xml` and downloaded files from the `mets.xml`.

Author: Since I didn't know how to detail describe the `credentials` part to cover all cases, I think it's best to leave it out. But never mind, as you said, we can have this endpoint defined and mark it as optional.

   workflow ID.
4. One can either:
    * Trigger a single processor on a workspace by calling the `POST /processor/{executable}` endpoint with the chosen
      processor name, workspace ID and parameters, or
    * Start a workflow on a workspace by calling the `POST /workflow/{workflow-id}` endpoint with the chosen workflow ID
      and workspace ID.
    * In both case, a job ID is returned.
5. With the given job ID, it is possible to check the job status by calling:
    * `GET /processor/{executable}/{job-id}` for a single processor, or
    * `GET /workflow/{workflow-id}/{job-id}` for the workflow.
6. The result can be downloaded by calling the `GET /workspace/{workspace-id}` endpoint. In case users only want
   metadata of the workspace but not the files, simply set the header to `Accept: application/json`.

## Suggested OCR-D System Architecture

There are various ways to build a system which implements this Web API. In this section, we describe a distributed
architecture, which greatly improves the scalability, flexibility, and reliability of the system compared to
the [CLI](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/cli) approach.

<figure>

>   <img src="images/web-api-distributed-queue.jpg" alt="Distributed architecture with the Web API"/>

Reviewer 2: It should show the client-server directionality though, not some dataflow logic.

>   <img src="images/web-api-distributed-queue.jpg" alt="Distributed architecture with the Web API"/>

Reviewer 2: I'm still quite convinced these two arrows are in the wrong direction (renaming the arc to `listen to job status` does not change that – both kinds of request target the queue server and originate from the other side)

>   <img src="images/web-api-distributed-queue.jpg" alt="Distributed architecture with the Web API"/>

Author: OK, I updated the arrow direction 😃

>   <img src="images/web-api-distributed-queue.jpg" alt="Distributed architecture with the Web API"/>

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

is the database system. There are many options for a reverse proxy, such as Nginx, Apache, or HAProxy. From our side, we
recommend using [Traefik](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/).

### Description

As shown in Fig. 1, each section in the [Web API specification](#the-specification) is implemented by different servers,
which are Discovery Server, Processing Server, Workflow Server, and Workspace Server respectively. Although each server
in the figure is deployed on its own machine, it is completely up to the implementors to decide which machines run which
servers. However, having each processor run on its own machine reduces the risk of version and resource conflicts.
Furthermore, the machine can be customized to best fit the processor's hardware requirements and throughput demand. For
example, some processors need GPU computation, while others do not, or some need more CPU capacity while others need
more memory.

**Processing**: since the `Processing` section is provided by [OCR-D Core](https://github.com/OCR-D/core), implementors
do not need to implement Processing Server, Process Queue, and Processing Worker themselves, they can reuse/customize

> the existing implementation. Once a request comes, it will be pushed to an appropriate queue. A processing queue always

Author: > But it says `compared to CLI` here. Shouldn't that rather be what benefits this particular architecture offers over a simple non-distributed Processing Server implementation (e.g. direct Processor REST calls)?

Agree. It's just the old text. I'll update it accordingly.

has the same name as its respective processors. For example, `ocrd-olena-binarize` processors listen only to the queue
named `ocrd-olena-binarize`. A Processing Worker, which is
an [OCR-D Processor](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/glossary#ocr-d-processor) running as a worker, listens to the queue, pulls
new jobs when available, processes them, and push the job statuses back to the queue if necessary. One normally does not

> call a Processing Worker directly, but via a Processing Server. Job statuses can be pushed back to the queue, depending

Author: `call` means that users do not trigger Processing Workers directly (by sending requests to them).

To get data into the NFS, one could use the `POST /workspace` endpoint to
upload [OCRD-ZIP](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/ocrd_zip)files. However, this approach is only appropriate for testing or
very limited data sizes. Usually, Workspace Server should be able to pull data from other storages.

### Processing Server

A Processing Server is a server which exposes REST endpoints in the `Processing` section of
the [Web API specification](openapi.yml). There are two types of task performed by a Processing Server: deployment
management and message producer. For the former, a Processing Server can deploy, re-use, and shutdown Processing
Workers, Process Queue, and Database, depending on the configuration. To start a Processing Server, run

```shell
$ ocrd processing-server --address=<IP>:<PORT> /path/to/config.yml
```

This command starts a Processing Server on the provided IP and port. It accepts only one argument, which is the path to
a configuration file. The schema of a configuration file can be found [here](web_api/config.schema.yml). Below is a
small example of how the file might look like.

```yaml

> message_queue:

Author: Ah yes, I forgot to change it.

  address: localhost
  port: 5672
  credentials:
    username: admin
    password: admin
  ssh:
    username: cloud
    path_to_privkey: /path/to/file

> mongo_db:

Author: I just wanted to emphasize that it **must** be MongoDB. But using the key `database` is also fine for me.

> mongo_db:

Reviewer 2: Still – it's the name of the component in your architecture, of which the implementation is merely a detail. What if (at some later date) you want to replace MongoDB with something else? (You'd have to rename...)

  address: localhost
  port: 27017
  credentials:
    username: admin
    password: admin
  ssh:
    username: cloud
    password: "1234"

> hosts:

Author: Yes, it's a better term.

> hosts:

Author: I think `hosts` is a more appropriate term. On one host, there are many workers.

> hosts:

Reviewer 2: That's obvious though (multiple `address`  entries which contain multiple `processors` entries which may have `number_of_instance` >1 – these already indicate that there can be multiple workers per host entry).

However, IMHO what's not immediately clear, is what `hosts` stands for. That's too unspecific. And `worker_hosts` seems too long...

> hosts:

Author: Since I couldn't find a better term, I will just keep it `hosts` for the moment. I think the term is not too bad though 😅

> hosts:

Reviewer 2: Ok, never mind.

   is done via Docker. Make sure that the provided `username` has enough rights to run Docker commands. In case
   the `ssh` property is not presented, the Processing Server assumes that RabbitMQ was already deployed and just uses
   it.
2. `mongo_db`: this section also contains the `address` and `port`, where the [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) is
   running, or will run. If `credentials` is presented, it will be used when deploying and connecting to the database.
   The `ssh` section behaves exactly the same as described in the `message_queue` section above.
3. `hosts`: this section contains a list of hosts, usually virtual machines, where Processing Workers should be
   deployed. To be able to connect to a host, an `address` and `username` are required, then comes either `password`
   or `path_to_privkey` (path to a private key). All Processing Workers, which will be deployed, must be declared under
   the `deploy_processors` property. In case `type` is `docker`, make sure that [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) is
   installed in the target machine and the provided `username` has enough rights to execute Docker commands.

> Among three sections, only the `message_queue` is required. However, if `hosts` is present, `mongo_db` must be there

Author: For the case when we have database and workers running 24/7 (OCR-as-a-Service) and just want to re-use them.

as well. For more information, please check the [configuration file schema](web_api/config.schema.yml).

> ### Processing Worker

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend moving this section below the Process Queue, because it is easier to explain top-down, and workers only make sense with queues.

Author: OK, fine for me.

There is normally no need to start (or stop) a Processing Worker manually, since it can be managed by a Processing
Server via a [configuration file](#processing-server). However, if it is necessary to do so, there are two ways to start
a Processing Worker:

```shell
# 1. Use ocrd CLI bundled with OCR-D/core
$ ocrd processing-worker <processor-name> --queue=<queue-address> --database=<database-address>

# 2. Use processor name

> <processor-name> processing-worker --queue=<queue-address> --database=<database-address>

Reviewer 2: Are you sure about this mnemonic? It strikes me as inconsistent with the existing CLI conventions.

For the [REST wrapper](https://github.com/OCR-D/core/pull/884), you have added `--address`. Is this whole functionality obsolete now? (I thought that the reference implementation could easily provide both a worker for the queue model and a standalone REST wrapper along #884's lines, i.e. `POST /` etc. So maybe for the CLI something like `--server=worker --queue=... --database=...` and `--server=rest --address=...` could be defined.)

Author: > Is this whole functionality obsolete now?

For my initial idea, yes. I wanted to support only the queue architecture, but after reading your comments, I think it's better to have both, queue and standalone REST wrapper. The CLI syntax you suggested is a good idea.

Author: How about a syntax like this?

```shell
# Start a worker
$ ocrd server --type=worker --queue=... --database=...
$ ocrd-dummy server --type=worker --queue=... --database=...

# Standalone server
$ ocrd server --type=rest --address=... --database=...
$ ocrd-dummy server --type=rest --queue=... --database=...
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, I guess your cmd-group syntax is clearer. And it does help keep the standard help text short.

Reviewer: Also, subcommands for the processor CLI are really tricky to do, so if it was to be based on the `ocrd-foo-processor` CLI, the worker arguments would realistically need to be options of the `ocrd-foo-processor` CLI, which makes the help text longer and requires more if-else-clauses to detect starting a worker vs. normal processing vs. `--help` etc.

So, I'm :+1: for a subcommand to `ocrd`.

Reviewer 2: @kba perhaps you can comment on the respective [discussion in the Web API](https://github.com/OCR-D/spec/pull/222#issuecomment-1425934842) then.

```

* `--queue`: a [Rabbit MQ connection string](https://www.rabbitmq.com/uri-spec.html) to a running instance.
* `--database`: a [MongoDB connection string](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/connection-string/) to a
  running instance.

### Process Queue

> By using a queuing system, specifically [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/), the reliability and flexibility of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using a queuing system for individual per-workspace per-job processor runs, 
specifically as message queueing with [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/), the reliability and flexibility of the
```

> whole system are greatly improved. In our implementation, manual acknowledgement mode is used. This means, when a

Reviewer 2: ...improved over **what**?

```suggestion
Processing Server are greatly improved over a system directly coupling the workflow engine and distributed processor instances.

 In our implementation of the Process Queue, manual acknowledgement mode is used. This means, when a
```

Would that be correct?

Author: It is improved compared to other approaches, like distributed REST calls or local CLI calls.

Processing Worker finishes successfully, it sends a positive ACK signal to RabbitMQ. In case of failure, it tries again
three times before sending a negative ACK signal. When a negative signal is received, RabbitMQ will re-queue the
message. If there is not any ACK signal sent for any reason (e.g. consumer crash, power outage, network problem, etc.),
RabbitMQ will automatically re-queue the message after timeout, which is 30 minutes by default. This behavior, however,
can be [overridden](https://www.rabbitmq.com/consumers.html#acknowledgement-timeout) by setting another value for
the `consumer_timeout` property in the [`rabbitmq.conf`](https://www.rabbitmq.com/configure.html#config-file) file.

To avoid processing the same input twice (in case of re-queuing), a Processing Worker first checks
the [`redeliver`](https://www.rabbitmq.com/confirms.html#automatic-requeueing) property to see if this message was
re-queued. If yes, and the status of this process in the database is not `SUCCESS`, it will process the data described
in the message again.

When a Processing Server receives a request, it creates a message based on the request content, then push it to an

> appropriate queue. A processing queue always has the same name as its respective processors. For

Reviewer 2: What exactly does `appropriate queue` mean? Shouldn't this paragraph explain that a workflow must be decoded into single processor calls in a certain order, and that these calls then get pushed one by one onto the queue?

Author: > Shouldn't this paragraph explain that a workflow must be decoded into single processor calls in a certain order, and that these calls then get pushed one by one onto the queue?

That's better. I'll re-write it in this way.

Reviewer 2: Thanks – that's really helpful!

example, `ocrd-olena-binarize`processors listen only to the queue named `ocrd-olena-binarize`. Below is an example of
how a message looks like. For a detailed schema, please check
the [message schema](web_api/processing-message.schema.yml).

```yaml
job_id: uuid
processor_name: ocrd-cis-ocropy-binarize

path_to_mets: /path/to/mets.xml
input_file_grps:
  - OCR-D-DEFAULT
output_file_grps:
  - OCR-D-BIN
page_id: PHYS_001,PHYS_002
parameters:
  params_1: 1
  params_2: 2
result_queue_name: ocrd-cis-ocropy-binarize-result

created_time: 1668782988590
```

In the message content, except `job_id`, `processor_name`, and `created_time`, are added by the Processing Server. The

> rest comes from the body of the `POST /processor/{executable}` request.

Reviewer 2: I cannot decode this logically. Content minus job_id, or minus job_id and processor_name and created_time?

Author: Sorry, it should be a comma after "Processing Server", but somehow I put a dot. I will re-formulate it like this:

> In the message content, `job_id`, `processor_name`, and `created_time`, are added by the Processing Server, and the rest comes from the body of the `POST /processor/{executable}` request.

# Web API

## Terminology

* **Processing Worker**: a Processing Worker is an [OCR-D Processor](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/glossary#ocr-d-processor)
  running as a worker, i.e. listening to the Process Queue, pulling new jobs when available, processing them, and
  pushing the updated job statuses back to the queue if necessary.

> * **Processing Server**: a Processing Server is a server which exposes REST endpoints in the `Processing` section of
>   the [Web API specification](openapi.yml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Workflow Server**: a Workflow Server is a server which exposes REST endpoints in the `Workflow` section
of
   the [Web API specification](openapi.yml). In particular, for each `POST /workflow/{workflow-id}` request,
   a new task (in Nextflow: channel) comprised of a chain of `POST /processor/{executable}` jobs
   (in Nextflow: processes) is added and scheduled (communicating with the Processing Server for requests
   and the Process Queue for results).
* **Processing Server**: a Processing Server is a server which exposes REST endpoints in the `Processing` section of
  the [Web API specification](openapi.yml). In particular, for each `POST /processor/{executable}` request,
  a Processing Message is added to the respective Job Queue.
```

> * **Process Queue**: a Process Queue is a queueing system for workflow jobs (i.e. single or chained processor runs on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Process Queue**: a Process Queue is a queueing system for workflow jobs (i.e. single processor runs on
```

>   one workspace) to be executed by Processing Workers. In our implementation,
>   it's [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  one workspace) to be executed by Processing Workers and to be enqueued by the Workflow Server via the Processing Server.
  In our implementation, it's [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/).
```

for Python. [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) is used for the Process Queue, and [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/)
is the database system. There are many options for a reverse proxy, such as Nginx, Apache, or HAProxy. From our side, we
recommend using [Traefik](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/).

### Description

As shown in Fig. 1, each section in the [Web API specification](#the-specification) is implemented by different servers,
which are Discovery Server, Processing Server, Workflow Server, and Workspace Server respectively. Although each server
in the figure is deployed on its own machine, it is completely up to the implementors to decide which machines run which
servers. However, having each processor run on its own machine reduces the risk of version and resource conflicts.
Furthermore, the machine can be customized to best fit the processor's hardware requirements and throughput demand. For
example, some processors need GPU computation, while others do not, or some need more CPU capacity while others need
more memory.

**Processing**: since the `Processing` section is provided by [OCR-D Core](https://github.com/OCR-D/core), implementors

> do not need to implement Processing Server, Process Queue, and Processing Worker themselves, they can reuse/customize
> the existing implementation. Once a request arrives, it will be (split into single-processor jobs and) pushed to a
> job queue. A job queue always has the same name as its respective processors. For example, `ocrd-olena-binarize`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
do not need to implement Workflow Server, Processing Server, Process Queue, and Processing Worker themselves, they can reuse/customize
the existing implementation. Once a workflow request arrives, it will be split into single-processor jobs
to be scheduled as processing requests whenever the previous job's result comes available. 
Each processing request will have a job pushed to the job queue named after the respective processor executable. For example, `ocrd-olena-binarize`
```

Author: I would not mention the Workflow Server here, since we're talking about the `Processing` part of the API in this paragraph. And with the opening sentence:

> since the `Processing` section is provided by [OCR-D Core](https://github.com/OCR-D/core),...

adding the Workflow Server here doesn't fit.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I can see it more clearly now. But then the parenthesis (which from my suggestion) must be removed here, too. (Nothing needs to be split up, requests are already atomic. Except if splitting should happen here from document to page level...)

Perhaps the (split/monitor) relation between workflow requests and processing requests can be explained by a dedicated `Workflow` section then? (You do have the Workflow Server in the architecture figure and in the glossary...)

Reviewer 2: Agreed!

new jobs when available, processes them, and push the job statuses back to the queue if necessary. One normally does not
run a Processing Worker directly, but via a Processing Server. Job statuses can be pushed back to the queue, depending
on the [job configuration](#process-queue), so that other services get updates and act accordingly.

**Database**: in this architecture, a database is required to store information such as users requests, jobs statuses,
workspaces, etc. [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/) is required here.

**Network File System**: in order to avoid file transfer between different machines, it is highly recommended to have
a [Network File System (NFS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_File_System) set up. With NFS, all Processing
Servers(specifically processors) can work in a shared storage environment and access files as if they are local files.
To get data into the NFS, one could use the `POST /workspace` endpoint to
upload [OCRD-ZIP](https://ocr-d.de/en/spec/ocrd_zip)files. However, this approach is only appropriate for testing or
very limited data sizes. Usually, Workspace Server should be able to pull data from other storages.

> 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add a 3rd level section on the Workflow Server (along the lines of the new entry in the terminology) here?

Author: I will do it later, when we have the working example Nextflow script.

> from the Workspace Server. In case `result_queue_name` property is presented, the result of the processing will be

Reviewer 2: Sorry, but I still don't understand. So the Processing Server (formerly Broker) receives some `POST /processor/{exe}` or `POST /workflow/{wid}` with parameters, respectively. It generates a job ID. It then divides the request up into a chain of processor jobs, creating a message to the queue for each one. Each queue is named by the processor executable.

- Is `result_queue_name` the same as the `appropriate queue` mentioned in the `Processing` paragraph of the architecture?
- How do the workers know when they have to skip some message because its prerequisite message has not finished, yet?

Author: > Is `result_queue_name` the same as the `appropriate queue` mentioned in the Processing paragraph of the architecture?

No, `appropriate queue` means the processing queues, which have the same name as the corresponding processor. For example, `ocrd-dummy` processors always listen to `ocrd-dummy` queue.

> How do the workers know when they have to skip some message because its prerequisite message has not finished, yet?

It doesn't know that. A worker is completely stateless. It only takes a message from a queue and start processing. It's the job of some kind of orchestrator above to push messages to queues in the right order.

Reviewer 2: Understood. Your additional terminology on job queue and result queue is also helpful, thanks.

But I still don't get the picture. So if there are multiple job queues (one for each available processor), but the workers are stateless, then how does the synchronisation between producers and consumers happen?

Author: > So if there are multiple job queues (one for each available processor)

No, one queue for each type of processor. For example, 2 `ocrd-dummy` processors will listen to the same `ocrd-dummy` queue.

> how does the synchronisation between producers and consumers happen?

An example flow looks like this:

1. The producer, which in our case is the Processing Server, receives a `POST` request to the `/processor/ocrd-dummy` endpoint with this body:

```yml
path_to_mets: /path/to/mets.xml
input_file_grps:
  - OCR-D-DEFAULT
output_file_grps:
  - OCR-D-BIN
page_id: PHYS_001,PHYS_002
parameters:
  params_1: 1
  params_2: 2

result_queue_name: ocrd-dummy-result
callback_url: https://my.domain.com/callback
```

2. It creates a processing message based on this content and publish it to the `ocrd-dummy` queue.
3. An `ocrd-dummy` worker, which is listening to that queue, receives the message and starts processing.
4. When the processing finished, the worker saves the job status to the database, publishes a result message to the `result_queue_name` and also `POST`s the result message to the `callback_url`.

I hope that answers your question.

Reviewer 2: > > So if there are multiple job queues (one for each available processor)
> 
> No, one queue for each type of processor. For example, 2 `ocrd-dummy` processors will listen to the same `ocrd-dummy` queue.

That's what I meant. (Note I did not say _worker_ but _processor.)

> > how does the synchronisation between producers and consumers happen?
> 
> An example flow looks like this:

This example is too trivial – I already understood that much. What I meant by synchronisation between producers and consumers is that in every non-trivial workflow (more than 1 step), processors run one after another (for the same workspace), and each step (producing processor)'s output is the next step (consuming processor)'s input. IOW the consumer must not run before the producer.

Now, if the workers only get to see their own respective queue, and the steps are scattered across many queues – how is the workflow queued? (Or is there some runtime instance – like a thread for each workflow – that tracks progress, pushing new process messages to the job queues after receiving the previous result messages?)

Author: Ah, I see what you meant. In our current plan:

1. All processing workers are only consumers. It means that they won't publish any processing messages.
2. We need an orchestrator (Nextflow in our case) to execute a workflow. The orchestrator listens to the result queues and send the next `POST /processing/{exe}` request to the Processing Server to trigger the next processor when the previous one is finished.

For the next step, I'm thinking it might make sense to have a simple workflow definition file (YAML), in case Nextflow is overkill for any use cases. By reading that file, a processing worker knows what to do and which processor it has to trigger next when it finished. So in this case, a processing worker will also produce processing messages. But this is only the plan in my head. We need to finish what is defined in the current spec first.

Reviewer 2: Ah, of course, now I see (the wood from the trees). 

So perhaps the spec should also contain an example for the workflow server (detailling how the workflow gets decomposed into jobs by processor or even by page, and how the job/result queue communication then looks like)?

> For the next step, I'm thinking it might make sense to have a simple workflow definition file (YAML), in case Nextflow is overkill for any use cases. By reading that file, a processing worker knows what to do and which processor it has to trigger next when it finished. So in this case, a processing worker will also produce processing messages. But this is only the plan in my head. We need to finish what is defined in the current spec first.

Interesting idea.

Author: As discussed, an example Nextflow script will be provided later.

pushed to the queue with the provided name. If the queue does not exist yet, it will be created on the fly. This is
useful when there is another service waiting for the results of processing. That service can simply listen to that queue
and will be immediately notified when the results are available. Below is a simple Python script to demonstrate how a
service can listen to the `result_queue_name` and act accordingly.

```python
import pika, sys, os

def main():

>     connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters(host='localhost'))

Author: > In general, this would be the `--address` of the server.

No, it is the address of the RabbitMQ. The client connects directly to RabbitMQ to listen to the result queue, and it has nothing to do with Web API in this case.

> Also, what about credentials? The RabbitMq config seems to have username/password or keyfile. But again, how does the Web API client get to know?

Yeah, the client/listener must somehow know the credentials to be able to connect to RabbitMQ, maybe via the administrator, who configured RabbitMQ.

>     connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters(host='localhost'))

Reviewer 2: > > In general, this would be the `--address` of the server.
> 
> No, it is the address of the RabbitMQ. The client connects directly to RabbitMQ to listen to the result queue, and it has nothing to do with Web API in this case.

What I meant was: since the Processing Server usually deploys RabbitMQ locally, it would be the same host (and perhaps the default / hard-coded port). But otherwise, some mechanism of advertising the queue to all clients (hence `/discovery`) would be needed.

>     connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters(host='localhost'))

Author: Yes, but that is up to the IPs to decide, what they want to return from the `/discovery` endpoint. It's OK to return the address of the RabbitMQ instance, but credentials should not be returned, since the returned data is plain text.

So, in any case, the client must somehow know the address and credentials to connect to RabbitMQ, it can be via the administrator, as I said.

>     connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters(host='localhost'))

Reviewer 2: Ok, granted, `/discovery` contents should not be overly specified. And since the queue model is optional, and you even have a callback endpoint now, and you amended the code snippet with port and credentials, it should be clear enough now.
